Hello, folks.
What is wrong with me that I'm back here
shaving again? I don't know.
Something.
That's pretty cool. 19 bill steps
already.
We'll see if that does anything.
Cool run on a red box.
Okay.
What to do next, man?
What to do next?
Let's just take a second and think.
Upper lip is kind of good.
New one is kind of fine.
Model pretty okay.
Bindings are bindings.
Of all of this, the only stuff I'm
really annoyed with was well, ocean, but
ocean's like the one and whatever.
And um
like the struct kernels thing.
I mean, it's the evening. We can kind of
chill and just think about stuff a
little slower now.
I think that's reasonable.
That's reasonable enough.
That's cool.
Hey Liberty.
I'm doing pretty well.
I've already screamed a ton today, but
I figured out a few more things while
I'm here.
I guess
I don't like that we have this just
massive blob of crap in kernels.cu, and
then we have like pulled stuff out into
structs.h.
Too many small files as well.
This is core network stuff.
The first
400 lines.
Then we have another 300 lines of
PPO
loss
200 lines of logic sampling
200 lines of copies
100 lines of miscellaneous
buffer
400 buffer ops
and then
with the advantage
some generic kernels
many which only get used once.
For some reason we have allocator in
here.
Software registration. I don't know why
the hell this is here.
Who blasts?
This is the dirtiest part of the whole
thing at the moment.
Liberty.
Simulator for Age of Empires and you
have that's a big project.
You're going to want to think about
well,
you're going to want to look at some of
our materials and how we make our Sims
fast. You're going to want to think
about the observation and action space
because how to prevent stuff in a
compact
reasonable form
and minimize the network complexity.
Going to probably the main things.
And some actual generic kernels in a
holy PPL, right?
Freaking thing here.
So now knowing what's in here, does this
help me at all?
>> I don't like the idea of having this be
a million files.
I also don't like the idea of just
dumping all the crap in here.
Five new files? Hell no.
>> What is this experimental stuff?
Open this now. Did they update it?
They don't put their pricing on here,
which is kind of funny of them, isn't
it?
Mhm.
>> I think I'm fine with pop for let the
see you being longer.
I think.
And ultimately the best thing is to just
reduce the total amount of code.
At least this puts the relatively clean
sections of code back into here.
These are nice buffers, right?
This is actually kind of useful stuff to
have.
What else is in here that shouldn't be
in here?
These kernels can go here. This is fine
by me.
>> Actually, this is now
There's not that much weird [__] in here
anymore.
Except the allocator.
Oh, no, we still have cool blast map
moles.
No, no, we still have actually a few
hundred lines worth of weird [__] in
here.
If this file ended up about here, 1,300.
Interesting.
>> I don't like having structs like this is
a thing.
I don't think that this is actually a
good
way to do it.
But, let's see if this runs.
Yeah, that works.
>> How much gear does this?
Do we have any hope of eating the
kernels file?
Mhm.
>> There shouldn't be a file named kernels.
That's the thing.
There really shouldn't.
I'm trying to think of like the
different ways that I could put this
together.
Well, I might as well try some stuff,
right?
>> Let's think about this.
I'm going to like try this out and then
y'all can tell me whether you think this
structure is better.
So, instead of having mass fast kernels
fall,
>> It's already a third gone.
Utils files suck.
Um we're going to make one for now,
though.
Mhm, are we?
Really don't want a stupid utils file.
We'll do it for now.
Mhm, no, cuz they're going to have to
import each other, aren't they?
What else we got here? Soft claws.
Uh these should just go.
>> Yeah, so this is the thing that's
shitty.
>> Well, this is no longer hiding
complexity.
This is in line with the philosophy.
Only have 680 lines left in here.
A lot of this can even be cut more.
So, like this is all
Right? All this stuff.
>> How much do we have left in here?
Not that much.
Hey muffin, how's it going, man?
I checked your DM. I got completely
spammed by um
like a bunch of crazies.
With some good artists in there.
I That was a really weird website you
sent me.
I don't know what to make of it.
Finally got your PC. You're doing some
RL then, yeah?
Nonstop RL? I'm in.
That'd be good.
That would be good.
>> I'm trying to just trying to figure out.
I'm playing around with um the puffer
four code now to see how I like it split
up.
It's about 5,000 lines of um
CUDA S and CUDA C.
We only have 450 lines left in here and
most of it is like
Hmm.
Hmm hmm hmm.
Fiddly little kernels, right?
Oh, I pay for stuff for sure, man.
I definitely pay. That's not an issue.
It's mostly with the puffer. The thing
is it's it's a fair bit of work and it's
um
it's like 3D character it's load so it's
low poly.
It's character work so the actual like
expression and feel of it has to work
out. Um
Uh there's rigging and animation with
it.
It's probably
Let me think.
No, it's probably a bit simpler than
making like the character model uh like
in animations and rigging for an indie
game.
But it's probably not that that much
simpler, right?
Yeah, it's a little bit simpler. It
doesn't have that many animations.
Let me see if I
I got to be careful loading too many of
these because
Okay, not this dude.
Not this dude.
Man, I could go through I had a list of
people who I thought were like decent.
>> Have you seen the latest um
the latest perf numbers now
Very small models, 20 million steps per
second training.
Uh we've got multi-GPU on neural MMO
close to 4 million steps on the tiny
box, 50% faster than 3.0.
We got
about 15 or so mil for like your
standard architecture for most problems.
You know, there's some pretty good stuff
in here.
I wish I had I wish I'd like
Some of these kernels are just really
bad.
What about all these operations like
Mhm.
I'm trying to think if there still needs
to be like an ops file or whatever.
Probably don't want to have a puffer
lived up see you, right?
Practice near 4.0 is going to be crazy.
I mean, I can send the model files.
I can send the specs.
But like I don't want somebody to I
don't to like be having to say oh yeah
like you know start it and if you do it
it's good like and it's good I'll pay
for it. Um
Cuz it like it is a valuable enough job
like the plan is that this is probably
like between a $2,000 and $4,000
job.
Um
I will go put up the model files
together and if you message me I can
like I'll make them available if you
want.
And I mean obviously if it's good I'll
just say oh perfect yeah just hire her.
Um
The thing that I want to avoid like
I mean it the feel of it is very
important, right? If I basically I can
get something where I have the puffer
swimming around in the little demo and
it actually feels like good like it
feels like a real character then we're
set.
Drop it on Discord and I'll grab it.
Okay. I have to put all the stuff
together muffin and I probably have to
spend a couple hours to like you know
load the current version in and make
sure the animation format is good so
that um artists can just drop their
animation files in and then like see if
it works correctly.
So I have to do a little bit of work for
that.
That might be like um
I have stuff to do this weekend but this
that'll probably be like a chill stream
day project
for me to do.
Quite soon though cuz the release is
getting there.
Release is getting there.
>> So, the difficulty I'm having here with
this is I like
Does it make sense to have a generic ops
file where we try to have like really
high quality implementation of various
operations? I don't think so.
Because what ends up happening, right,
is you end up needing to just use the
code from those directly.
Mhm.
Like the whole min group, for instance.
>> like stuff like this.
Yeah, I don't like stuff like this at
all.
But then stuff like this, you know, this
makes sense to have.
>> I just bought an Akai MPK in it with
going models.
I don't like that.
>> Yeah, I don't like this because this is
just torch all over again, right?
I don't even really like this.
Man, I hate wrapping stuff, but then
like when they have all these freaking
extra arguments.
Well, let's just see what we can get rid
of from here actually. Let's just start
with that.
Let's see how small this gets.
A lot of these are just like different
source and destiny types.
>> Just normal function reloading.
>> And why is it global?
Okay, so this is
called from either.
Doesn't really need to be marked global,
does it?
Yeah, that's really true.
>> Mhm.
>> That's two precision.
That's 32 two precision.
Let's see if this runs.
It's a heck of a slow test.
We're getting there.
Wait, I'm confused.
host
So, you can call
uh
That's annoying.
>> Well, that's not bad, right?
I think I can still do it.
Now, wait. It's sketchy now, isn't it?
Does this not Does this not work?
No, this is not what we want.
Let's not do this.
Think how we want to do it.
>> Okay, let's see if this works.
I'm kind of curious.
So, I think this should.
>> Up says
a little wonky.
Um
>> quite weird.
>> Let's see if this remote works.
No.
Lovely. Not at all. Of course not.
>> Very annoying.
>> Let's just do pub cast.
I think this good this will do it.
>> Mhm.
>> Probably this crap, right?
Man, this is so shitty.
How the [__] do you do this and not have
it be just disgusting?
>> You met Chelsea Finn?
Maybe.
I'm trying to remember if she was there
when I was still at Stanford.
>> Yes.
That's disgusting.
I don't like any of that [__] That's
awful.
Would be better to just do it like
not [__] right?
So, what? You just do like this, right?
>> I'm going to do.
>> Mhm.
>> Gets rid of some cast crap, right?
Oh yeah, I'm heading out in I think like
20-ish minutes.
We'll call it for the evening.
Got to wind down a little bit.
For the folks here though, I will be
probably streaming a decent bit
tomorrow. I also have to talk with
Spencer some.
He might stream the onboarding, we'll
see.
It could be fun.
Holy peas.
I mean, this is not
If we get to delete all of this
We have to just delete all that.
>> It's actually really nice.
It works this way.
I mean, if this one just get rid of all
that crap cast logic like
I don't think this is the best thing,
but this is closer.
Right?
>> Hey Luke.
I'm um
Oh, man, so much work, but we're making
progress.
We got 20 mil SPS small nets, 15 mil
reasonable nets.
We've got stable multi GPU, we got
sweeps, and we got the new architecture
nice and working.
Mostly just some cleanups now.
Quite difficult to get this clean.
This is on my local low-end machine here
with these stats.
Yeah.
>> Hello guys and welcome.
I thought that it's a whole bunch of
crap.
Is this just not used?
I'm confused.
I thought this is used.
What?
Oh, dummy. It's used right here.
>> Let's see if this is good.
minus one function
What else do we still have in here?
Okay, not too much left in here, right?
I'm going to have to rename think our um
our types most likely.
>> It's kind of just see that runs on your
GPU.
Doesn't have to be magic. Doesn't have
to be complicated at all, either.
I actually wonder if we should allow um
if we should just have a single tensor
type
or if we just have, you know, like float
tensor, this tensor, that tensor.
>> Cuz doesn't that fix it immediately?
Well, I guess you get the blow up on it,
don't you? It still blows up.
Number of implementations.
That's annoying.
What other stuff can we get out of here
for now? Some rows to precision.
Subscribe. Thank you. It's all open
source.
If you'd like to check it out, um it's
on puffer.ai.
You really want to help me out for free,
star the repo on GitHub.
Fastest growing highest performance RL
library out there.
And we have tons of demos on puffer.ai.
They run agents in your browser.
And you can train that at home because
it's just that fast.
Lot easier to get into than you'd expect
as well.
>> And then you kind of need this.
Oh, this is for just continuous crap.
It's unclear.
Thank you very much. Pop for like stars.
Pop for very hungry.
Decoded red kernel.
This doesn't go in here, right?
I bet you we can just probably stick
this thing in um
in here.
Ay, ay, ay, ay, ay.
Hang on, can't we just do
Problem is I don't want to pollute this
section either.
I'm just going to stick this here for
now.
And I got to run pretty soon today. I
think I'll be streaming more tomorrow.
It depends how long stuff take with
Spencer.
The goal is to get him on board to all
this.
And uh he can help try to make help me
uh make sense of all this crap.
Hello, welcome.
How's it going?
Like this looks like a general kernel,
but it's really not.
And
>> If I can go put this
where it belongs, which is like
hereish.
Let's go down.
Okay, so here we can actually just go
take this,
put it where it belongs.
>> Now this is basically pretty minimal.
There shouldn't be kernels or whatever.
This is the bottom. I don't know where
this guy should go.
Try not to open this.
That was awful, man.
That was awful.
I think I've been proven right in some
sense that it's just the death of
reason. Cuz since then I've seen like
several people I used to respect
basically just go off the deep end and
are now like not producing anything of
value anymore.
They like retired from thinking.
Oh, this is one thing we can do.
This is one thing we can have this to
actually real quick.
Easy to connect this to popper in order
to do RL to
Yeah, the only thing that's a little
iffy is cuz board games are turn-based.
There's a little extra stuff for
turn-based
that's going into popper four, but we
have we have a project for that with
Jess and Spencer. They've been working
on a really cool chess
chess project around that.
So yeah, you just look at it seems a
little sparse. Any good resources I'd
add my game. Now there's a tutorial for
this. This is the one thing that
actually is on the docks.
So right here
like these are links.
We got a template environment. We have a
couple demo environments.
They're nicely commented.
This is a single player template for
instance. Well, we got target, we got
template, we've got a couple others.
Target
template
just commented minimal environment.
There's the target environment which is
a minimal multi-agent environment.
>> That's pretty much all you need to get
started.
But for the turn-based thing, like oh,
how do I make it turn-based self-play?
Like give it a random opponent to start,
make sure that that works, and then go
ask Jess for that.
That would be a good way.
The code quality is going to vary since
they're by different contributors.
The basic sure, you can use that. So
going to connect four versus
like scripted opponents at the moment,
they're not full self-play.
For full self-play, we have the chess
project. I think ours is at like 1,300
something Elo.
That's no search though. So 1,300 Elo
pure RL self-play with no search is
pretty cool already.
Um
you can ask Jess for that. But yeah, I
would basically I'd just give it a
random scripted opponent to start. Make
sure you can beat your scripted
opponent, you get the integration, and
then ask them on the um the self-play
integrations.
Yeah, let's get rid of those. We don't
want that stupid C++ feature. There we
go. Raw Raw pointer is better.
And when I do it in Kivy as well, okay.
No, I don't think it would be worth
waiting for Puffer 4. Like it's already
the highest performance thing out there
by a huge huge margin.
And like anywhere else you're going to
go is just going to be I don't think
it's going to be any easier first of
all. Like RL tools in general are very
very bloated at the moment.
Um
so you know, while we don't have perfect
everything for turn-based stuff at the
like in Puffer 3, what we do have is
quite compact, very fast, and very
simple.
And we have people like actively doing
turn-based stuff in a variety of
different projects as well.
They make relatively small changes to
the code base to support it.
I guess it depends on what you're coming
from. Like what library you're using at
the moment for this?
I missed it. Yeah, just for a little
bit.
I'm going to go take um
call soon. So, I'm almost done for the
night. Thanks, Joe. Yeah.
No worries.
Puffer this. I keep finding all these
C++ isms all over the place.
I really want this to be just like CUDA
C.
You know, very, very minimal.
Nothing to RL. Yeah, I'll start here
then.
Puffer is good for this.
It's just the speed that Puffer gets you
let you just do things instantly that
take literal days otherwise.
And um we have a very large emphasis on
simplicity.
So, Puffer 3 is just straight simple, no
gotchas.
Puffer 4
I will admit is going to be moderately
more complex.
But the reason that Puffer 4 is complex
is because it doesn't use Well, the the
highest perf backend there is still a
torch option. But the highest perf
backend in Puffer 4 doesn't use torch.
So,
like if you look at it in a as a whole,
it's like a tenth of the complexity or
less of torch, but there's no torch.
So, like if you're considering torch as
zero complexity then you have more
complicated. But if you're considering
like oh torch internals are weird and I
always get confused with stuff whenever
I try to do anything custom then it's
blazing blur.
I don't know. That's probably more
information than you need for now. It's
fast. There's a big community to help
you out. It's a great way to learn RL
both at a high level but also all the
way down to this system's level as well.
And it's used in a bunch of things and
it's growing fast.
So there you go.
And I'm here slogging away trying to get
this thing to actually be reasonable.
This shouldn't break it, right? This is
like a literal IDE syntax.
Refactor up.
I just don't like the the ampersand.
Syntax, the the C++ ampersand syntax.
I find it redundant and confusing.
Or is it magnitude faster? Yeah, it's
kind of funny cuz every time somebody
ends up claiming that they have
something like faster than popper or
anywhere near as fast as popper, it
always ends up being fake.
We had one of those today. That was
pretty funny.
>> Oh yeah, this is a breakout in like 8
seconds on my low-end machine.
Um
We can get to 4 second full solves on
the higher end machine.
If you need to just be sold on the
speed.
If that's a was a question.
I think we can fold this, right?
I think it's just a little too long.
Yeah, that's nice.
And then fold this one, of course.
I like the way this looks.
Nice jumps.
Okay, I think this is a reasonable
spot for the day.
Thoughts on getting PhD?
I never suggest people a PhD.
You get a PhD if you know you want to
get a PhD.
Like I knew I needed a PhD cuz I needed
to work on a crazy thing for 5 years.
And like I still was just straight up
not having a good time for a lot of it
with a supportive advisor at a top
school.
Like
you need to know what you're signing
yourself up for.
I don't think I know anybody that's just
like, "Oh yeah, PhD's great."
I mean did it set me up to do all this
stuff quite well? Yeah.
I could have probably done a lot of
things much more efficiently though.
I'm doing your work.
I'm trying. It's tough.
>> Oh, that's fine.
It says that I only deleted a couple
lines of code after all that work.
I think I added better spacing though.
See, this is why line count is a bad
metric.
You actually need some sort of
reasonable tokenization to know whether
you're going in the right direction.
The damn on YouTube. Oh, yeah.
Um, I had What was it? I did a I did
like a talk for beginners with um
Unico University of Warwick. That's on
my YouTube as well.
I think that's the most recent one I
posted.
That was a decent little talk.
Let's merge this thing. I'm sick of
working on this static native branch.
This is done. Let's just have this be
4.0.
We're obviously not going back to pure
torch at this point.
Oh my gosh, GitHub.
You go to 4.0.
Oh, it's minus code. That's cool.
>> I hate that it's merge source branch
into target branch.
>> Like this always does it backwards,
right?
I don't want to mess it up. Whatever,
we'll do it this way.
[__] GitHub, man.
I really do not enjoy this.
Why What the [__] is this?
Control M at the end of everything.
Huh?
Created on a Windows or DOS system is
open.
What the [__] has this done to my code?
I hate this.
Can you do that? I you can't, right? Cuz
it's a control character.
Yeah, no, this doesn't match it, dude.
Cuz it's not actually a carrot.
There aren't even meaningful changes in
here, are there?
>> There literally aren't meaningful
changes.
Cuz I merged these both. Okay.
Hang on, we'll just This is annoying as
[__] Let's do this.
Oh, actual control M.
I say
That's probably Yeah, okay. I didn't
realize you could do that.
No, do that that cuz that enters.
Whatever.
You're doing a
No, I am.
percent S slash
Yeah, it enters immediately, dude.
I don't even know how the [__] this
happened cuz nobody's editing this [__]
on Windows.
This is like GitHub doing some
utterly cursed stuff.
I wonder if it's going to try to like
strip all the freaking
This is fine.
There are no meaningful changes though
cuz like I already done this. So, I
don't even know how this ended up being
like registering as a merge
as a as a conflict.
Stupid [__] man.
That worked.
>> Nice.
Now we have it on 4.0 proper.
And it shows stats for um the main
branch, not the latest.
It's a little annoying.
Hand writing code for the most part.
Get rid of that crap.
Let's see if this works.
12 mil FPS with the small net on my
local not so great machine.
Little bit of RNG on the um
return there. It's just hyper, it's
don't worry about that.
And let's see.
Uh
Oh.
Huh?
Okay.
We build on 40.
We're just making sure we didn't merge
it wrong.
And then we'll show the line counts and
everything in a second.
So, this should be bitwise to This
should be
like perfectly bitwise deterministic.
Okay, it isn't somehow. I have no idea,
but
Wait. No, no, it is. 071, that's the
same. Per- perfect. We're good.
We're good.
Let's check on our big run.
We're still alive.
GPUs are not on perfect utilization,
oddly enough.
Not perfect.
We are at 1.54
with 50 billion steps.
Not ideal.
It's something, though.
We'll see where it goes. It's only been
live
uh 3 hours 38 minutes.
I will let this run overnight.
And we'll see what this gives us.
I also I set this one to give us um
This one should give us a whole bunch of
points essentially.
It's not going to down sample this one
super super far.
So, we have puffer breakout uh and then
puffer neural neural MMO that was, of
course.
Oh, yeah. I said I'd do the word counts
for everyone, right? So,
the current puffer lib 4.0
Really though, the actual training code
is all here in source, all right? So,
you can take puffernet out of this cuz
puffernet this is only used for our web
demos. I should probably move it
somewhere else.
Minus this, we're just under five just
under 5,000 lines of code for the new
back end.
I don't know whether I like this number
of files.
400 lines of bindings
180 lines. This is for the cuDNN
bindings to support convolutions.
349 lines of like kind of shared used in
several places kernel ops. I think we
can get this down to maybe
250.
847 lines for models.
I believe that's about 400 lines of
like C code for the models themselves
and 400 lines of kernels.
232 lines for the entirety of Muon
including its kernels. Not bad.
Uh Ocean, 318 lines. This is just the
janky neural MMO encoder. This is not
cleaned up at all.
We'll come back to this one.
186 lines of structs. I don't really
like to have my struct split out into a
file like this.
I haven't figured out what I want to do
with this yet.
And 600 lines for the back end. This can
probably be cut down to 500.
And then the big one is pufferlib.cu.
I believe half of this file is
the actual setup for the training,
photographing, buffer registration, all
of that stuff. And about half of this is
devoted to custom kernels.
Those custom kernels,
a couple of them are very poorly
written.
I think overall,
with a little bit of assistance from
uh some people who like some people in
the community who have some kernel dev
experience,
I think we could quite reasonably get
this down to 4,500 lines for Puffer 4.
Uh I think with a lot more effort we
could potentially get it down to around
4,000 lines.
But it's fairly compact. This is not
like horrendously awful bloated at this
point.
So, that is some major major progress
for today.
I think I have a few minutes left. I'm
just I'm waiting on somebody here.
Um
but for folks who are new around here, I
stream all the dev on this several days
a week.
Probably going to be more days of the
week uh once I'm back to the main the
farm where I stream from.
Been in Florida for the winter.
Um
if you want to help me out for free,
star the popper on GitHub. It will help
me out a lot.
And join the Discord discord.gg/popper
to get involved. And you can follow me
on my new X handle.
They gave me a nice shiny new one here,
J Suarez, for all the RL content.
You get to see things like, oh, the
fancy new result that was reported today
is not actually a thing.
All right.
What now?
I can think of a couple last things for
tonight cuz I am going to be able to do
a little bit of refactoring tomorrow as
well.
The only major uncertain thing I think
left with popper is just getting the
neural MMO nets to produce a good
policy.
That's it there.
There's some stuff to test, but even
anything that's broken is relatively
quick to fix.
There's some Python updates to do that's
those are easy, no big deal.
Structure-wise,
I don't really like the idea of
shipping.
I think the PPO kernel's really bad.
And a couple of sample kernels.
Like this section of the code here, this
is plain.
This is plain.
Very clean, in fact.
This is all just nice, mostly C.
And then we get down to the kernels
and we have stuff like this sample logic
script, which is just a complete
disaster.
And then we get down to the PPO kernels,
which are like an even more insane
disaster, like 400 lines worth of stuff
to compute the PPO loss.
This is just disgusting.
And then these gigantic structs worth of
data for PPO.
And then gigantic kernels for computing
prioritized replay, which is like three
lines of code normally.
But then if we actually get away from
all that crap, all the kernel stuff,
and we look at the train loop,
train loop's pretty clean.
We transpose a whole bunch of things cuz
the buffers need to be flipped in
memory.
And then here's the train loop. It's
like what, a screen or two of code?
It's like two screens.
Here is your policy forward,
PPO loss,
move on step,
and that's it.
Some really nice profiling tools in
here.
I got the create function to not be
totally insane now.
So, it's a big struct with a bunch of
functions on it.
But it's just one code path.
Here's registering. This is basically
allocating all the memory
used in the entirety of training.
That's it. And here's the CUDA graphing
section.
We eliminate all the overhead from um
launch calls.
Couple very small things I'm not happy
about in there. I think the really big
one is those kernels just sucking.
So, I mean in that case, like
aside from that, aside from neural MMO,
it's really just what do we do with
these two little files like the structs
and the kernels file, total 500 lines.
This has like
this stuff in it.
Oh, you know what?
I bet you we don't use these all over
the place anymore, do we?
Wait, do where do do we pass these?
What do these things need now?
These things take allocations.
Encoder weights.
No, they don't take roll up buffers
anymore.
So, wait, can I just like
if I take these things
can I just paste these?
If I delete these
and I put paste them at the top, does
work?
Obviously, this is not the the idea of
what to do here, right?
I think that since we've moved all that
crap out of kernels
apparently
apparently prefix scan is still used.
I have no idea what C++ all this is.
Let's put prefix scan back.
Wait, but maybe it just goes in models.
Wait, hang on. Does this just go here?
Maybe this just goes here.
Oh, okay. That does just go there.
So, I was just kind of stupid with the
way I had it organized before, yeah.
I think this is way better.
What's left in structs?
Like nothing, right?
Yeah, this the quickest way to just
delete We'll just delete this and see
where we
missing it.
Oh, this is literally just bindings?
No.
It's needed in here as well and
upper limit.
That's actually not bad though.
>> So now we're literally just left with
the allocator struct
and um the pop tensor struct.
Which I don't know what to do with
these, so they definitely don't go in
fernals.
But I'm just going to stick them in
fernals for now because I don't know
what to do with them.
And pop tensor will go at the top.
This is the only thing that we might
keep as a um
struct with methods.
We might.
To be determined.
Stick this here.
I just want file.
And then this still friends, how long is
everything?
That's the one that I don't know as
well.
Okay, proper lip gets a little longer.
430 lines in coronal.
And we got one file to deal with.
Do we just like name this something else
and then just figure out what doesn't
need to be in here.
Honestly, I think probably almost
everything in here needs to either be in
here or be deleted.
The kind thing in that.
Yeah, frankly, even that's fine there.
Okay, this is no longer kernel.cu,
obviously.
I don't even know what the heck this is.
It's just a shared file, right?
It's all standalone.
Hey, we're on the same page.
Hello.
I can definitely put some effort into
deleting a couple of these functions.
Under 5K lines.
It shouldn't freaking be called
kernels.cu.
If you're having difficulty naming it,
you're probably doing something wrong is
the problem.
The thing is
it is just utils.
Or shared.
I don't want to go stick like the
allocator into allocator.cu and have
that be freaking 20 lines and then go
stick cool blast, right? And then like
have that be 20 lines or whatever.
Yeah, I'm too tired to think of that.
I'm too tired to think about that. Let
me see if there's what what else do we
have to look at.
Um
I guess the remaining bits would just be
like
can we reduce the size of the giant ass
kernels, right?
We have 800 lines of them or so in
popularlive.cu.
900.
We could think about the tensor
structure.
Sean burnout for today, yeah.
I'll be done shortly.
There's been a damn good day though of
of work.
What is 10:00 p.m.?
10:30?
It's I started around 10:00.
I took like a short break for dinner.
It's probably a solid 12 hours worth of
um
of dev today with everything included.
Plus an hour's worth of other stuff I
did in the morning.
Very good progress, I'd say, on the
refactor.
There are a couple things I'm not fully
certain about structurally.
But then most of the stuff that's really
jank is just isolated to some of the
kernels being shitty.
Um
I think anybody who's had a few months
worth of kernel dev experience could
help with those though.
It's not that hard.
I guess the only question I I'm not sure
do we want to have
Do we just have like one tensor? Or do
we do it by type, right? Do we have like
a float tensor, tensor, like Do you have
tensors per type?
If I do it per type, I don't have the
weird size tracking.
I avoid a whole bunch of weird casts, I
think.
The trick there is that I end up using
function overloading.
It's arguably much safer.
I think this is one of those things I'm
just going to have to take a couple
hours tomorrow
or whenever and like try it and see if
it looks better or not.
Cuz So, the issue, let me explain why
I'm considering this.
Um you can't just have the type
like there isn't a type T in C,
right? You can't just have the type be
dynamic.
So,
I'm going to show you how this is weird.
Ignore the fact that we have all this
stuff hanging off of puff tensor. Just
look at these three fields.
Bytes, okay.
Shape, okay. D type size.
So you either have to give it D type
size or just give it a D type enum.
The enum can't be the type though,
right? And then you have to do
conditional logic on the enum to find
out the size
or find out whatever else.
Where I was thinking if I do like, you
know,
first it can be a puff tensor, right?
We can call it float tensor, char
tensor,
precision temp like BFP float tensor,
whatever the heck we want.
And then the trick here would be
The trick here with this is that if I do
that,
I can probably make the kernels
themselves just take the tensor values.
Like this could be float tensor, float
tensor or whatever, and I can just like
define several versions
for the different tensor types and
stuff,
and it'll call the correct one for you
because you get function overloading.
To be fair, I could also just decide I
do it manually and just know add float,
add whatever,
and still name them and not use the
function overloading, but I'd have that
option.
The cool thing with that is then I
wouldn't have to cast every time. I
wouldn't have to cast from char star.
The cast is kind of sketchy.
I think you might even be able to do
I might even be able to make it a host
method for like add puff add or
whatever.
That takes the types.
That's still less sketchy.
I think it's worth investigating that
tomorrow.
All right, so we have that one thing to
investigate.
We know that there's still a little
couple things to do with the structure
in here.
We know that these freaking kernels in
puffer lib CU suck.
Some of our kernels are quite good, but
there're a couple in there that just
suck.
That's nothing.
And then yeah, the only question is just
neural memo.
1.6
Can I find my old curves I wonder for
this?
I mean, let me see if I can find them. I
I don't even know if Neptune is still a
thing.
Yeah, literally the um
Neptune up redirects to OpenAI now.
So, it's just gone.
So, I don't even get my experiments.
Yeah, what Yeah, OpenAI um bought and
killed the thing. Lo and behold.
I still have the curve somewhere, don't
I?
I'm sure I have the curve somewhere.
They're probably on Do I not have an
article with these?
Oh, yeah, here we go.
Oh, there's no x-axis on this.
Is that a Neptune plot or a wandb plot?
I think that's Neptune.
Hm.
It's so much faster than this now, it's
a funny thing.
Yep, this is the correct approach.
Oh, [__]
See, now I'm a little concerned because
now I have to figure out why.
I guess
should be home by now. Hm.
Could be the learning rate doesn't
perfectly transfer.
Four layers.
512 hidden. That should be the correct
size.
gamma j lambda
I may as well go check a couple things
while I wait.
Okay, default config.
Let's see if any of our deep like our
new verb defaults changed in an
important way.
So, learning rate
clip coefficient
value function
mini batch, but I think we have this
custom.
betrays
betas
mini
So,
and then
These are all getting multiplied by
four.
And by six.
Yeah, these are all the same.
Mhm.
Dang.
Only difference I know is that we don't
have the layer norm fernal, which sucks.
Oh, they're 40 levels.
>> Interesting.
Could be a bug in the policy.
I'll have to go test it more carefully.
Well, at least get to see what this
does.
Does this not mask rewards?
Uh, it does.
There is a search here, right?
Oh, but you know what? I don't know.
I don't know. I think there might be a
thing.
I'm going to add this to the freaking
end level.
It's such a common bug.
>> So, I guess the double death.
Okay, we'll patch that and we'll see.
I don't think it's worth
So, it's worth or zeroing this.
I think it probably is.
Let's just let's fix this real quick.
Okay, I got to go people. I'm getting a
call. I will I will see you all later.
Stop [__]